Tags: #DailyNote 
# Garbage Collection

## Reference-counting garbage collection
<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">This is the most naive garbage collection algorithm</mark>. This algorithm reduces the problem from determining whether or not an object is still needed by determine if an object still has any other objects referencing it. An object said to be "garbage", or collectible if there are zero references pointing to it.

There is limitation when it comes to circular references. In the following example, the two objects are created with properties that reference one another, thus creating a cycle. They will go out of scope after the function call has completed. At that point they become unneeded and their allocated memory should be reclaimed. However the reference-counting algorithm will not consider them reclaimable since each of them reference each others.
```
function f() {
  const x = {};
  const y = {};
  x.a = y; // x references y
  y.a = x; // y references x

  return "azerty";
}

f();
```
## Mark-and-sweep algorithm
This algorithm reduces the definition of "an object is no longer needed" to "an object is unreachable".

This algorithms assumes the knowledge of a set of objects called roots. in JS, the root is the global object. Periodically, the garbage collector will start from these roots, find all objects that are referenced from these roots, then all objects referenced from these, etc. Starting from the roots, the garbage collector will thus find all reachable objects and collect all non-reachable objects.

# Configuring an engine's memory model
JS engines typically offer flags that expose the memory model. For example, Node.js offer additional options and tools that expose the underlying V8 mechanism for configuring and debugging memory issues. This configuration may not be available in browsers, and even less so for web pages (via HTTP headers, etc.).
The max amount of available heap memory can be increase with a flag
```
node --max-old-space-size=6000 index.js
```

We can also expose the garbage collector for debugging memory issues using a flag and the Chrome Debugger
```
node --expose-gc --inspect index.js
```

# Data structures aiding memory management
Although JS does not public the garbage collector API, the language offers several data structures that indirectly observe garbage collection and can be used to manage memory usage.
